# Startup Scripts

## Table of Contents

- [Background](#background)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Background

Startup Scripts are JavaScript modules that get executed as the app initializes. This allows developers to introduce specific code routines or configurations which should be processed during the application's bootstrap phase. It can be beneficial for setting up application configurations, initializing third-party libraries, or running any preparatory code.

## Configuration

The `startupScripts` directory, located within the `plugins` folder, hosts the JavaScript files designated for execution upon app load. These individual scripts get collectively bundled into the `startupScripts.bundle.[hash].js` file via Webpack. The [hash] placeholder in the `startupScripts.bundle.[hash].js` filename represents a unique hash value generated by Webpack. This hash is determined by the content of your assets. Every time the content changes, a new hash is produced, resulting in a different filename. 

The integration with Webpack is seamless. In the Webpack configuration, the `entry` field has a `startupScripts` property. This property utilizes the `glob.sync` method to dynamically capture all `.js` files within the `/plugins/startupScripts/` directory:

```
entry: {
  startupScripts: glob.sync('./plugins/startupScripts/*.js'),
  main: './src/index.js',
}
```

This configuration ensures two things:

1. Dynamic Inclusion: Any script that is added to the startupScripts directory is automatically bundled without any need for manual entry updates.

2. Parallel Bundling: The startupScripts and the main application code (main) are bundled separately. This means that the startup scripts can be loaded and executed independently of the main application code.

## Setup

To integrate a new startup script, abide by the following protocol:

1. Initialize a new JavaScript file within the `/plugins/startupScripts` directory.

2. Embed your desired code within this file.

3. Your script should invariably export a function. This function encapsulates the operations to be run at startup.

4. Save the JavaScript file.

When you're ready to compile and incorporate the startup scripts:

1. Open the terminal.

2. Navigate to the root of the project directory.

3. Run the command `npm run build`.

4. Webpack will bundle the app into the `dist/web` directory.

5. `startupScripts` will be included in the `startupScripts.bundle.[hash].js` file.


## Usage

To use the startup script functionality:

1. After bundling, ensure the `startupScripts.bundle.[hash].js` is properly linked in your HTML file or wherever the app's entry point resides.

2. On loading the application, scripts contained within `startupScripts.bundle.[hash].js` will run automatically.

3. Monitor or interact with the outcomes or side-effects of these scripts as desired.

By adhering to the above steps, you can effortlessly introduce startup logic to your application, ensuring a tailored initialization phase.
